Preface
Suggestions for the Reader
Interdependence of the Chapters
Frequently Used Notation

CHAPTER 1
Martingales, Stopping Times, and Filtrations
1.1. Stochastic Processes and σ-Fields
1.2. Stopping Times
1.3. Continuous-Time Martingales
A. Fundamental inequalities
B. Convergence results
C. The optional sampling theorem
1.4. The Doob-Meyer Decomposition
1.5. Continuous, Square-Integrable Martingales
1.6. Solutions to Selected Problems
1.7. Notes

CHAPTER 2
Brownian Motion
2.1. Introduction
2.2. First Construction of Brownian Motion
A. The consistency theorem
B. The Kolmogorov-Centsov theorem
2.3. Second Construction of Brownian Motion
2.4. The Space C[0, ∞), Weak Convergence, and Wiener Measure
A. Weak convergence

CHAPTER 3
Stochastic Integration
3.1 Introduction
3.2 Construction of the Stochastic Integral
A. Simple processes and approximations
B. Construction and elementary properties of the integral
C. A characterization of the integral
D. Integration with respect to continuous, local martingales
3.3 The Change-of-Variable Formula
A. The Itô rule
B. Martingale characterization of Brownian motion
C. Based processes, questions of recurrence
D. Martingale moment inequalities
3.4 Representation of Continuous Martingales in Terms of Brownian Motion
3.5. The Girsanov Theorem
A. The basic result
B. Proof and ramifications
C. Brownian motion with drift
D. The Novikov condition
3.6. Local Time and a Generalized Itô Rule for Brownian Motion
A. Definition of local time and the Tanaka formula
B. The Trotter existence theorem
C. Reflected Brownian motion and the Skorohod equation
D. A generalized Itô rule for convex functions
E. The Engelbert–Schmidt zero-one law
3.7. Local Time for Continuous Semimartingales
3.8. Solutions to Selected Problems
3.9. Notes

CHAPTER 4
Brownian Motion and Partial Differential Equations
4.1. Introduction
4.2. Harmonic Functions and the Dirichlet Problem
A. The mean-value property
B. The Dirichlet problem
C. Conditions for regularity
D. Integral formulas of Poisson
E. Supplementary exercises
4.3. The One-Dimensional Heat Equation
A. The Tychonoff uniqueness theorem
B. Nonnegative solutions of the heat equation
C. Boundary crossing probabilities for Brownian motion
D. Mixed initial/boundary value problems
4.4. The Formulas of Feynman and Kac
A. The multidimensional formula
B. The one-dimensional formula
4.5. Solutions to selected problems
4.6. Notes

CHAPTER 5
Stochastic Differential Equations
5.1. Introduction
5.2. Strong Solutions
A. Definitions
B. The Itô theory
C. Comparison results and other refinements
D. Approximations of stochastic differential equations
E. Supplementary exercises
5.3. Weak Solutions
A. Two notions of uniqueness
B. Weak solutions by means of the Girsanov theorem
C. A digression on regular conditional probabilities
D. Results of Yamada and Watanabe on weak and strong solutions
E. Results of Stroock and Varadhan
5.4. The Martingale Problem of Stroock and Varadhan
A. Some fundamental martingales
B. The martingale problem and weak solutions
C. Well-posedness and the strong Markov property
D. Questions of existence
E. Questions of uniqueness
F. Supplementary exercises
5.5. A Study of the One-Dimensional Case
A. The method of time change
B. The method of removal of drift
C. Feller's test for explosions
D. Supplementary exercises
5.6. Linear Equations
A. Gauss-Markov processes
B. Brownian bridge
C. The general, one-dimensional, linear equation
D. Supplementary exercises
5.7. Connections with Partial Differential Equations
A. The Dirichlet problem
B. The Cauchy problem and a Feynman-Kac representation
C. Supplementary exercises
5.8. Applications to Economics
A. Portfolio and consumption processes
B. Option pricing
C. Optimal consumption and investment (general theory)
D. Optimal consumption and investment (constant coefficients)
5.9. Solutions to Selected Problems
5.10. Notes

CHAPTER 6
P. Lévy’s Theory of Brownian Local Time
6.1 Introduction
6.2 Alternate Representations of Brownian Local Time
A. The process of passage times
B. Poisson random measures
C. Subordinators
D. The process of passage times revisited
E. The excursion and downcrossing representations of local time
6.3 Two Independent Reflected Brownian Motions
A. The positive and negative parts of a Brownian motion
B. The first formula of D. Williams
C. The joint density of (W(t), L(t), Γ+(t))
6.4. Elastic Brownian Motion
A. The Feynman–Kac formulas for elastic Brownian motion
B. The Ray–Knight description of local time
C. The second formula of D. Williams
6.5. An Application: Transition Probabilities of Brownian Motion with Two-Valued Drift
6.6. Solutions to Selected Problems
6.7. Notes

Bibliography
Index
